Now let's get some actions working and
we'll go back to using hooks cuz we
just use Connect for a little while.
And our actions are hooked onto that
slice ready for us to use as well.
So we'll go in here and
we'll take our create human task.
And now we've got dispatch, so I have
this one that says like, implement me.
Let's go ahead we'll
just say humanSlice or
I guess a call it a singular human,
let's stick with it for
now, .s.actions where it's got ad, right?
And as expecting a name as we saw before,
cuz it's gonna add it on there, but
it automatically created the action crater
on our behalf based on the reducer action.
So it's like cool, if you've got something
in your reducer that knows about
adding humans, you probably need
an action for adding the humans.
And the slice basically automatically
creates that on our behalf, and
we go ahead and we use it.
Let's make sure that this works.
You can see we can add more people.
And they're on there as well.
If you look,
this is something we talked about
the very beginning of our time together.
Which is it uses a different syntax
than the all capital letters
because it's abstracting
it with a object key,
it's actually gonna use human/ad when we
wire up the task is gonna be task/ad.
It's gonna automatically generate
the action types on our behalf based
on the name field that we gave that
slice and then the reducer action.
So is those two things put
together creates the action type
automatically for us in this case.
And so doing the same thing for
tasks is somewhat similar.
So we'll go to create task, and
we've got that other implement me here.
And this time we're just gonna
say taskSlice.actions.add,
we're dispatching that with
this case with the title.
And so now we can go ahead and
we can say what are the plans?
File the TPS reports.
Let's see actions blowing up.
It's not a function.
I didn't put it in the reducers
key when I was typing before.
So we have reducers,
now we can go ahead and we can use it.
Yeah, and we have both kinda in place.
You can see task that ad,
we have everything we need right there.
So it's making a lot of the boiler
plate a lot easier for us.
Now here's the problem.
What happens if we wanna
have an action that
isn't immediately generated by this for
us,
so we have a way to go
about doing that as well.
Let's start with the one that's
automatically generated and
then we'll see if we want to be able
to change it on our behalf as well.
So, we can say we've got this,
Let's add the ability to
toggle one of them on and off.
And so, we'll go to the tasks,
and we'll say toggle,
which is gonna be that done or
undone check box that we had.
Toggle is gonna take the state
in the action as well.
And by default,
it simply gives you whatever was
passed in as the one argument
as the payload, right?
And so if you wanna create a little
bit of a different syntax for
that you get to generate your own actions.
But let's go ahead and let's just say,
a given task is gonna be state.find,
task is gonna based on this as
we saw before taskid equals,
equals, equals action.payload.taskid.
But then we also maybe wanna get whether
the box is checked or unchecked.
So we're gonna need that as well in here.
So once we find that task
we'll say task.completed
equals action.payload completed.
So now we can go in to our individual
tasks and find other implement me.
And we could dispatch
taskid which we're getting
passed into the prop and
then completed is gonna be
event.target.checked which
will either be true or false.
So, make sure that works.
Now we can check them,
we gotta refresh it.
Let's see misspell constant.
I gotta actually use the action creator.
So we'll say tasksSlice.actions.toggle.
We'll pass it in like that and
that's feels verbose, right?
It feels like I would love to just give
the taskid as the first argument and
whether or
not it's completed as the second argument.
Do you feel that is that something that
you're spiritually thinking coz if you
are, we can make that happen.
We're just gonna have to create an action
that's not auto generated for us.
And we can absolutely do that.
But let's just make sure
our initial version works.
All right now it works and
you can see that the correct
actions are getting toggled.
Let's say that we wanted to just
create our own action creator.
Listen, I like that you're doing this for
us Redux Toolkit, but
I still have opinions on how some of these
should be used and I know what I'm doing.
I would like to go ahead and create
an action that works with Redux Toolkit
follows all the right moves, but I can
use to kinda format things differently.
We can totally do that as well.
And so in this case, we'll go back to
our tasksSlice, and we'll go ahead and
use this create action, functionality.
And so I'm just gonna name this
one something slightly different
just to highlight the fact that
this is the one that I made.
I'll call it export const toggleTask.
And instead of creating
Slice I'm gonna create action.
And create action takes, what do you
want the type of the action that
you're creating to be called cuz
we do you want to task/toggle.
If you really wanted to you could
do tasks.action.toggle.string.
But we can figure it out
based on the name and
the key what we want it to
be to trigger that reducer.
And we can go here and this is basically,
how do you want the action created work?
We said before,
we just wanna pass in a taskid,
we just wanna pass in completed,
and I want the payload,
To be formatted with the taskid and
the completed.
So we're taking that complexity
we're using our component and
putting it all in one place so
we don't have to worry about it anymore.
It's simply gonna take two arguments and
it's gonna create that object for us.
I gotta put in curly braces there as well,
and that should do the tricks and
now I can swap this one out.
Instead of having all this for
both logic, I can actually say,
ToggleTask, taskid,
event.target.checked.
Great, and
let's make sure that that works.
Everything works as we expected it to,
I'm just gonna refresh to confirm one
more time, yep, everything works.
So you can create your
own actions as well,
if there's something about the syntax that
the one that Redux Toolskit gives to you.
You can go ahead and pass in what the type
of the action is, how you wanna format
that payload yourself, and change a little
bit of the API for that action as well.
Great.
There is one other problem
that we need to solve for
which is in our previous examples,
all of the actions flew
through all of the reducers.
And that wasn't a big deal.
I mean, it was good in a lot of ways.
Because we were just writing JavaScript.
We're saying action.type, which means
since every action we're doing it was we
had the full power of
JavaScript in front of us.
We could just do whatever we wanted
programmatically here, because we have so
much obstruction if it becomes
a little trickier, right?
If I wanted to change who a task
is assigned to in the tasksSlice,
that's not hard, but
what if I wanna listen to a task
action in the humans reducer, right?
That was easy before,
it's not that hard now, but
it does involve learning an extra thing or
two.
So let's actually do it
in the tasksSlice first.
And so we'll go into tasksSlice.
And we're just gonna have one
more which is, AssignedToUser.
Okay, so what does assigned to user need?
It needs a state in the action obviously.
What needs to be on the action?
If I want to assign a task for the user,
what are the two things
that I need to know?
>> Which stalls can what users use.
>> Yeah, I need to are those two things.
And eventually that seems useful
on that same action, right?
To go through the user reducer.
And also those are the same two
pieces of things that I wanna use.
I don't wanna fire two actions just cuz
Redux Tools here try to do me a favor.
What I wanna figure out how to do is
wiring this up in the taskSlice is not
a big deal.
But then I also want to tell
the userSlice or the humanSlice,
you also care about this too.
And I wanna provide you with additional
functionality to work with this and
care about this.
So that's what we're gonna
need to figure out now.
All right, so we got assignToUser,
we'll do state.find with the task again.
I mean I can just copy that,
let's grab that.
And then we'll just do task.assignedTo
action.payload.humanid.
All right.
And then,
how do we deal with that in the other one?
Well, we'll go into our humanSlice.
And we've got the reducers that
are dedicated, that are actions created,
that are for
working with the humans in this case, but
then I have this other
one called extraReducers.
And I guess that really good abstractions
usually give you the ability to do
the easy stuff easily and
then drop down into a lower level when
you need to do more complicated things.